Does a Motor Insurance Policy Cover Damages Caused to My Car Due to Flooding?
Author: Team Finpage

GK Chesterton had once written that he experienced “bitter envy” when London was flooded in his absence since the city looked like Venice. He even imagined gondolas moving elegantly through the London streets. But floods aren’t romantic for those who experience them first-hand. They are destructive, causing damage to 75 lakh hectares of land on average each year in India.

A flood-damaged car can be a nightmare too. The damage could lead to gearbox malfunction, a stale odour inside the vehicle, impaired electronic systems and even engine failure. This is where good car insurance coverage can protect you financially. You will either need comprehensive motor insurance coverage or add-on flood coverage to your existing policy.

Flood Damage Insurance for Your Car
Standard car insurance does not include natural calamities like floods. So, consider getting a comprehensive cover that is a combination of your damage insurance and third-party insurance. It will take care of the cost of repairing any damage, apart from collision-related problems. This is the highest level of protection for your vehicle. It cushions your savings and ensures peace of mind for those living in flood-prone states like Gujarat, Punjab, Himachal Pradesh, Assam, Odisha and West Bengal.

What Does Flood Damage Insurance Cover?
Typical flood insurance for your car will pay for upholstery damage, gearbox damage and damage caused to electrical components, like lights. This ensures broader insurance coverage since you are also financially protected against accidental damages, fire, explosion and man-made disasters. Car owners will have to separately opt for these benefits from the website of the insurer.

What Flood Damage Insurance Does Not Cover?
As a car owner in India, you should know that certain exclusions may apply to your motor insurance policy. So, you might have to buy separate Engine Protection Cover and Zero Depreciation Cover, since insurance providers in India do not automatically include them. This is critical since water can enter through the hydraulic lock and damage the engine. It might cost you a fortune to repair such damage on your own.

How to Buy Adequate Flood Insurance?
Buying comprehensive cover is a wise decision. Keep the following factors in mind:
Reliability of the insurance provider.

Claim settlement ratio/reimbursement policy.

Range of cover and value for money.

Frequency of flooding in your area.

Whether small covers can be added.

Reviews from customers.

Effective customer service.

Remember to inform your insurer regarding any modifications to the car. This is necessary since they might want to inspect the vehicle and the modified parts before processing your claim. Accurate information will ensure an overall stress-free claim experience. 

A comprehensive motor insurance policy is the best way to keep your car in good running condition. Keep the above factors in mind while buying car insurance coverage to get the best quote possible. Avoid too many add-ons, upgrades and modifications in the policy to save on premiums. Do talk to experts and read the terms and conditions carefully before making the purchase.